Add documentations for batch ingestion feature (#7408)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/batch-ingestion.md

---
layout: default
title: Batch ingestion
has_children: false

> nav_order: 71 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nav_order: 80
```

parent: Connecting to externally hosted models 
grand_parent: Integrating ML models

> redirect_from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>   - /ml-commons-plugin/extensibility/batch-ingestion/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

> # Using externally hosted ML model for batch ingestion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Using externally hosted ML models for batch ingestion
```

**Introduced 2.15**
{: .label .label-purple }

> To ingest multiple documents which involve generating embeddings through external machine learning services, you can use OpenSearch's batch ingestion feature to achieve improved ingestion performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are ingesting multiple documents and generating embeddings by invoking an externally hosted model, you can use batch ingestion to improve performance.
```

> The `_bulk` API accepts a `batch_size` parameter to indicate that documents in the bulk request should be grouped into batches with a size equal to the value of `batch_size`. Processors that support batch ingestion and connect to external machine learning services will consolidate documents from the same batch and send them in one request to the external service for inferencing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Bulk API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/api-reference/document-apis/bulk/) accepts a `batch_size` parameter that indicates to process documents in batches of the specified size. Processors that support batch ingestion will send each batch of documents to an externally hosted in one request
```

## Step 1: Register a model group

> To register a model, you have the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can register a model in two ways:
```

> The `text_embedding` and `sparse_encoding` processors are two processors that support batch ingestion. When using these processors, setting the `batch_size` parameter in `_bulk` request allows them to take advantage of batched requests to the downstream machine learning services to improve ingestion throughput.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The processors that support batch ingestion are the [`text_embedding`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ingest-pipelines/processors/text-embedding/) and [`sparse_encoding`]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ingest-pipelines/processors/sparse-encoding/) processors.
```

To register a model, you have the following options:

* You can use `model_group_id` to register a model version to an existing model group.
* If you do not use `model_group_id`, ML Commons creates a model with a new model group.

To register a model group, send the following request:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

POST /_plugins/_ml/model_groups/_register
{
  "name": "remote_model_group",
  "description": "A model group for external models"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

The response contains the model group ID that you'll use to register a model to this model group:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
 "model_group_id": "wlcnb4kBJ1eYAeTMHlV6",
 "status": "CREATED"
}
```

> To learn more about model groups, see [Model access control](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/7c4fe91ec9a16bb75e33726c2c86441edd56e08a/_ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/%7B%7Bsite.url%7D%7D%7B%7Bsite.baseurl%7D%7D/ml-commons-plugin/model-access-control).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about model groups, see [Model access control]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/%7B%7Bsite.url%7D%7D%7B%7Bsite.baseurl%7D%7D/ml-commons-plugin/model-access-control/).
```

## Step 2: Create a connector

> You can create a standalone connector that can be reused for multiple models. Alternatively, you can specify a connector when creating a model so that it can be used only for that model. For more information and example connectors, see [Connectors](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/7c4fe91ec9a16bb75e33726c2c86441edd56e08a/_ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/%7B%7Bsite.url%7D%7D%7B%7Bsite.baseurl%7D%7D/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/connectors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a standalone connector that can be reused for multiple models. Alternatively, you can specify a connector when creating a model so that it can be used only for that model. For more information and example connectors, see [Connectors]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/connectors/).

```

The Connectors Create API, `/_plugins/_ml/connectors/_create`, creates connectors that facilitate registering and deploying external models in OpenSearch. Using the `endpoint` parameter, you can connect ML Commons to any supported ML tool by using its specific API endpoint. For example, you can connect to a ChatGPT model by using the `api.openai.com` endpoint:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
    "name": "OpenAI Chat Connector",
    "description": "The connector to public OpenAI model service for GPT 3.5",
    "version": 1,
    "protocol": "http",
    "parameters": {
        "endpoint": "api.openai.com",
        "model": "gpt-3.5-turbo",
        "input_docs_processed_step_size": 100
    },
    "credential": {
        "openAI_key": "..."
    },
    "actions": [
        {
            "action_type": "predict",
            "method": "POST",
            "url": "https://${parameters.endpoint}/v1/chat/completions",
            "headers": {
                "Authorization": "Bearer ${credential.openAI_key}"
            },
            "request_body": "{ \"model\": \"${parameters.model}\", \"messages\": ${parameters.messages} }"
        }
    ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The `parameters.input_docs_processed_step_size`parameter is used to set the maximum batch size for documents sent to a remote server. You can set this parameter to the maximum batch size the remote server can support or a smaller number for optimal performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `parameters.input_docs_processed_step_size` parameter is used to set the maximum batch size for documents sent to a remote server. You can set this parameter to the maximum batch size supported by the remote server or to a smaller number for optimal performance.
```

> `parameters.input_docs_processed_step_size` is used to set the maximum batched documents sent to remote server. It can be set to the maximum batch size remote server can support or number less than that which can give you the optimal inferencing performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `parameters.input_docs_processed_step_size`parameter is used to set the maximum batch size for documents sent to a remote server. You can set this parameter to the maximum batch size the remote server can support or a smaller number for optimal performance.

```

The response contains the connector ID for the newly created connector:

```
{
  "connector_id": "a1eMb4kBJ1eYAeTMAljY"
}
```

## Step 3: Register an externally hosted model

To register an externally hosted model to the model group created in step 1, provide the model group ID from step 1 and the connector ID from step 2 in the following request. You must specify the `function_name` as `remote`:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

POST /_plugins/_ml/models/_register
{
    "name": "openAI-gpt-3.5-turbo",
    "function_name": "remote",
    "model_group_id": "wlcnb4kBJ1eYAeTMHlV6",
    "description": "test model",
    "connector_id": "a1eMb4kBJ1eYAeTMAljY"
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

OpenSearch returns the task ID of the register operation:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
  "task_id": "cVeMb4kBJ1eYAeTMFFgj",
  "status": "CREATED"
}
```

> To check the status of the operation, provide the task ID to the [Tasks API](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/7c4fe91ec9a16bb75e33726c2c86441edd56e08a/_ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/%7B%7Bsite.url%7D%7D%7B%7Bsite.baseurl%7D%7D/ml-commons-plugin/api/tasks-apis/get-task):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check the status of the operation, provide the task ID to the [Tasks API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/api/tasks-apis/get-task/):
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

GET /_plugins/_ml/tasks/cVeMb4kBJ1eYAeTMFFgj
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

When the operation is complete, the state changes to `COMPLETED`:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

{
  "model_id": "cleMb4kBJ1eYAeTMFFg4",
  "task_type": "REGISTER_MODEL",
  "function_name": "REMOTE",
  "state": "COMPLETED",
  "worker_node": [
    "XPcXLV7RQoi5m8NI_jEOVQ"
  ],
  "create_time": 1689793598499,
  "last_update_time": 1689793598530,
  "is_async": false
}
```

Take note of the returned `model_id` because you’ll need it to deploy the model.

## Step 4: Deploy the model

> Starting with OpenSearch version 2.13, externally hosted models are deployed automatically by default when you send a Predict API request for the first time. To disable automatic deployment for an externally hosted model, set `plugins.ml_commons.model_auto_deploy.enable` to `false`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting in OpenSearch version 2.13, externally hosted models are deployed automatically by default when you send a Predict API request for the first time. To disable automatic deployment for an externally hosted model, set `plugins.ml_commons.model_auto_deploy.enable` to `false`:
```

> Starting with OpenSearch version 2.13, externally hosted models are deployed automatically by default when you send a Predict API request for the first time. To disable automatic deployment for an externally hosted model, set `plugins.ml_commons.model_auto_deploy.enable` to `false`:

Reviewer 2: Although technically accurate, "automatically by default" reads as redundant. Can we use just one of them?

```json
PUT _cluster/settings
{
  "persistent": {
    "plugins.ml_commons.model_auto_deploy.enable" : "false"
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> To undeploy the model, use the [Undeploy API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/api/model-apis/undeploy-model/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To undeploy the model, use the [Undeploy API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/api/model-apis/undeploy-model/):
```

```json
POST /_plugins/_ml/models/cleMb4kBJ1eYAeTMFFg4/_deploy
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> The response contains the task ID that you can use to check the status of the deploy operation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The response contains the task ID, which you can use to check the status of the deploy operation:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

> To undeploy the model, use the [Undeploy API](https://github.com/opensearch-project/documentation-website/blob/7c4fe91ec9a16bb75e33726c2c86441edd56e08a/_ml-commons-plugin/remote-models/%7B%7Bsite.url%7D%7D%7B%7Bsite.baseurl%7D%7D/ml-commons-plugin/api/model-apis/undeploy-model).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To undeploy the model, use the [Undeploy API]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/ml-commons-plugin/api/model-apis/undeploy-model/).
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

```json
{
  "task_id": "vVePb4kBJ1eYAeTM7ljG",
  "status": "CREATED"
}
```

As in the previous step, check the status of the operation by calling the Tasks API:

```json
GET /_plugins/_ml/tasks/vVePb4kBJ1eYAeTM7ljG
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

When the operation is complete, the state changes to `COMPLETED`:

```json
{
  "model_id": "cleMb4kBJ1eYAeTMFFg4",
  "task_type": "DEPLOY_MODEL",
  "function_name": "REMOTE",
  "state": "COMPLETED",
  "worker_node": [
    "n-72khvBTBi3bnIIR8FTTw"
  ],
  "create_time": 1689793851077,
  "last_update_time": 1689793851101,
  "is_async": true
}
```

> ## Step 5:  Create an ingest pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Create an ingest pipeline
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

The following example request creates an ingest pipeline with a `text_embedding` processor. The processor converts the text in the `passage_text` field into text embeddings and stores the embeddings in `passage_embedding`:

```json
PUT /_ingest/pipeline/nlp-ingest-pipeline
{
  "description": "A text embedding pipeline",
  "processors": [
    {
      "text_embedding": {
        "model_id": "cleMb4kBJ1eYAeTMFFg4",
        "field_map": {
          "passage_text": "passage_embedding"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Step 6: Perform bulk indexing

> To ingest documents in bulk, call the Bulk API and provide a `batch_size` and `pipeline` parameters. If you don't provide a `pipeline` parameter, the default ingest pipeline for the index will be used for ingestion:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ingest documents in bulk, call the Bulk API and provide the `batch_size` and `pipeline` parameters. If you don't provide a `pipeline` parameter, the default ingest pipeline for the index will be used for ingestion:
```

> The following example request creates an ingest pipeline with `text_embedding` processor where the text from passage_text will be converted into text embeddings and the embeddings will be stored in passage_embedding:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example request creates an ingest pipeline with a `text_embedding` processor. The processor converts the text in the `passage_text` field into text embeddings and stores the embeddings in `passage_embedding`:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```

> ## Step 6: Bulk indexing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 6: Perform bulk indexing
```

> We call `_bulk` API to ingest multiple documents with `batch_size` parameter and `pipeline` parameter explicitly. If `pipeline` parameter is not set, the default pipeline attached to the index will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ingest documents in bulk, call the Bulk API and provide a `batch_size` and `pipeline` parameters. If you don't provide a `pipeline` parameter, the default ingest pipeline for the index will be used for ingestion:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json
```
